It's a very important skill to be able to think abstractly about something
like a CICD pipeline before you get into the weeds.
It also helps you come down to earth when it's time to
talk to non-technical people about what's happening in the pipeline.
Let's take a look at the diagram that I came up with
and see what you might have done differently.
In my diagram, I decided to start with push,
which to me is a developer pushing code into the repository.
Then CICD is going to take over by actually pulling that out of git and then building it.
Remember, building is creating that artifact.
Then I'm going to Run some unit tests on
my code to check to make sure that
my business logic is right and that things are as I expect,
then I'm going to do some analysis on this code.
Now each one of these,
I don't even have a branch on these,
but each one of these actually does pass through one of these decision blocks,
because if the build fails,
it should eventually trigger a failure and an alert in slack for the team.
If a unit test fails, same thing,
it should eventually go to slack to let the team know and stop the build from there.
No more building after a failure.
Same thing for analysis.
Just imagine that this decision block is on each one of these things.
If the analysis passes,
then we want to know whether it's Master or not.
If it's not Master,
then we want to go ahead and stop there.
The reason why we do that,
in my team is because we treat Master as the production version,
and so we don't want to deploy unless the version is actually Master.
If we're developing a feature branch,
or we're doing something else,
we just want to Run the build, the unit test,
and the analysis, we don't want to deploy anything else.
But if it is Master,
then we want to create the infrastructure.
So we're going to have a job for that.
Each one of these is a job.
Again, if it doesn't pass,
then we are going to roll back to destroy
the new stack and revert any migrations that had Run.
Then we're going to, if it did pass,
we're going to configure the infrastructure.
Again, it's pretty much every time.
If it's no, then we're going to stop everything and notify and roll back.
But if it did pass,
then we are going to migrate our database,
and then we're going to do some preparation where we're going to rebuild the front end.
This is something specific to my application because
we want to rebuild the front end with
the new API_URL because since that back end URL is going to change every single time,
and then we're going to deploy and copy the files.
If that passes, then great.
If it didn't, it's going to roll back and it's going to eventually notify us in slack.
But if it does pass,
then we do some smoke tests.
For me, smoke tests can be super simple,
or they can be pretty complex.
The simplest form would be just with a curl.
I'm going to curl and hit a website to see if it's doing what I expect it to do.
If that passes, then I'm going to switch to my new distro in my CDN,
or I'm going to make the switch in the load balancer.
Then when I'm finished with that,
I'm going to destroy the old stack to save on some infrastructure costs.
Then I'm going to notify the team of the success.
That completes the entire circle of this CD diagram.
I wonder what yours looked like.
How different was George from mine?
What would you have done differently than I did?